## Sets

> What is a set?

A set $X$ can be thought of as a collection of things $x \in  X$.
If there exists a pair $x, x' \in X$, one can tell if $x = x'$ or not.

> How do you denote an Empty Set?

- $\emptyset$ - a set with no elements

> What does the assignment operator $:=$ mean?

- $:=$ - define "this" to be "that".

> What does $\R$ designate?

- $\R$ - the set of all real numbers.
Written as:
$$\R := \{-1, \pi, \sqrt{45}, 1.8, 500, ...\}$$

> How is the set of natural numbers written?

- $\N$ - the set of natural numbers.
Written as 
$$\N := \{0, 1, 2, 3, 4, ..., 877, ...\}$$

> What does $\Z$ represent?

- $\Z$ - the set of integers.
Written as 
$$\Z := \{..., -551, ..., -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, ...\}$$

> When you want to say that some set is part of another set, what is that called? How is that denoted?

- $\subseteq$ - is a subset of the set.
Example, given that $\N$, contains only natural numbers whereas $\Z$ contains all integers, we can say that $\N \subseteq \Z$

> What is the symbol for exists?

- $\exists$ - there exists.

> What is the symbol for there exists a unique?

- $\exists!$ - there exists a unique.

> What does $\forall$ denote in set builder notation?

- $\forall$ - for all.

> How can you use set notation to write the set of even integers?

The set of even integers can be written as 

$$\{n \in \Z \ | \  n\ \text{is even}\}$$

> How can you use set notation to write the set of integers greater than 2?

The set of integers greater than $2$ can be written as

$$\{n \in \Z \ | \ n > 2 \} \text{ or } 
\{n \in \N \ | \ n > 2 \} \text{ or }
\{n \in \N \ | \ n \geq 3 \}$$

using the symbol, $\exists$, one could also write:

$$\{n \in \Z \ | \exists m \in \Z \text{ such that } 2m = n\}$$

to denote the same relationship:

$$\{n \in \Z \ | \  n\ \text{is even}\}$$

> How do you read the statement $\exists! x \in \R \text{ such that } x^{2} = 0$

"There is one and only one number whose square is $0$".

> How do you use set builder notation to write the expression, "for all $m$ in $\N$, there exists $n$ in $\N$ such that for every number, there is a bigger one."

$$\forall m \in \N \ \exists n \in \N \text{ such that } m < n$$

### Exercises

> **2.1.1.2** Let $A = \{1, 2, 3\}$. 
What are all the subsets of $A$?
Hint: there are $8$.

1. $\emptyset \subseteq A$
2. $A \subseteq A$
3. $\{1\} \subseteq A$ 
4. $\{2\} \subseteq A$ 
5. $\{3\} \subseteq A$ 
6. $\{1, 2\} \subseteq A$ 
7. $\{2, 3\} \subseteq A$ 
8. $\{1, 3\} \subseteq A$ 
